Faculty Name: Jyoti Prakash Cr Naidu

--- Education ---
PhD

--- Experience ---
Prof. Jyoti Prakash Naidu is Dean (R&D) at JK Lakshmipat University. Having worked in both industrial R&D and academia for more than three decades with international expertise and passion that converges with an endeavour to re-imagine education, he holds vast experience in Learner-Centric and PBL (Project Based Learning) pedagogy.He has been affiliated with leading institutions, laboratories, and industry as well as start-ups and SMEs in the UK (University College, London; University of Derby); USA (MIT-Spin-off Companies at Boston; University of Phoenix, Arizona); Canada (University of Toronto and Spin-offs, Meritus University, Carleton University), and India (Centre for Artificial Intelligence & Robotics: CAIR-DRDO under late Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam;  Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Systems: IRIS, HMT, VTU, MSRUAS, Presidency) in different capacities ranging from R&D Engineer to HOD, Director, Dean and Advisor.He has been conferred with several awards and honours including the Canadian Commonwealth Scholarship & Fellowship (1992-96), Defence Technology Spin-off Award received from the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India as Project Director of IRIS (2005); National Design Awards (Senior-2003, Student-1979) from National Design and Research Forum, Institution of Engineers, India; and Canadian Star of Global Health Award (2013) from Grand Challenges, Canada funded by the Government of Canada for Bold Ideas.He is the originator of the field of Design for Automation as an extension of the Axiomatic Design Theory established at MIT. His research interests include Design Theory and Methodology with applications for Design of Intelligent Systems, Design for Patentability and Sustainability in the fields of medical devices, biotechnology, advanced manufacturing, mechatronics, robotics, automation, virtual reality, business methods and other areas overlapping with multi-disciplinary aspects of humanities and social sciences.He has an extensive hands-on design, development, and product realisation experience ranging from manufacturing systems for specialised aerospace components to biomedical devices with several patents issued or under process; one of his major achievements being development of pioneering DNA Arraying System for biomedical applications culminating in sale of technology to industry for considerable fees and royalty. He is a licensed member of the Association of Professional Engineers of Ontario, Canada.

--- Teaching Interests ---
Design for Patentability
Design for Sustainability
Design for Automation
Trans-disciplinary areas across Technology, Management, Humanities and Social Sciences
Robotics
Application of Management and Technology in Rural, Agricultural, and Ecological Areas

--- Research Interests ---
Design Theory Methodology with applications for Design of Intelligent Systems.
Design for Patentability and Sustainability in the fields of medical devices, biotechnology, advanced manufacturing, mechatronics, robotics, automation, virtual reality, business methods and other areas overlapping with multi-disciplinary aspects of humanities and social sciences.

--- Honors, Awards, and Affiliations ---
Canadian Commonwealth Scholarship & Fellowship (1992-96).
Defence Technology Spin-off Award received from the Honourable Prime Minister of India as Project Director of IRIS (2005).
National Design Awards (Senior-2003, Student-1979) from National Design and Research Forum, Institution of Engineers.
IndiaCanadian Star of Global Health Award (2013) from Grand Challenges Canada, funded by the Government of Canada for Bold Ideas.

--- Selected Publications ---
Naidu, CRJP, Srinivasan, M, Wearable Tactile Display, US Patent 9600072 issued dated 21 March, 2017.
Naidu, CRJP, Naidu, K., Srinivasan, M, Tactile Array Sensor, US Patent 9415517, issued dated August 16, 2016.
Naidu, CRJP, Popovic M, Naidu K, Thermal Pixel Array Device, US Patent 9040875, issued dated May 26, 2015.
Manohar, BS, Mathias, PC, Natarajan V, Naidu, CRJP, Poston, T, Visibility Volumes for Interactive Path Optimization, Visual Computer, DOI 10.1007/s00371-008-0244-x, Springer-Verlag 2008.
Naidu, CRJP, Kircanski, N, and Goldenberg, AA, High Precision Positioning Device and Method of Operating Same, US Patent #6,347,259 issued in February 2002.

