About the programme
The success of an enterprise is dependent on its foundation and its ability to adapt to change. The last two decades have seen significant change in business models, driven by innovative tech and design. Start-ups and agile players have created new industries or ways of life (Uber, Whatsapp), and gained significant market share from established companies (e-tailers like Flipkart). Fintech (PayTM, Zerodha) has been at the core of creating new-age customer experiences.

 

India has been at the forefront of these changes with 100+ unicorns, as well as digital payment products that are the best in the world (UPI, IMPS, etc.), which are so good that they are being adapted by other countries.

 

The BBA programme at JKLU believes in providing learners a strong foundation in core management, new-age skills (communications, critical thinking, entrepreneurial mindset, etc.) and focused specializations that ensure that they are job-ready when they graduate. The Indian economy is expected to be the fastest growing in the world, and we are making sure that our graduates will make best use of the emerging opportunities.

 

Our specializations
 

BBA Banking & Fintech: Digitization has completely transformed the way India banks and pays. Our industry-integrated programme ensures our students learn new-age Banking and Fintech from the industry experts. Our unique internships, after the 2nd year and in the 6th semester, ensure our students learn in real-life corporate environments and are truly job-ready when they graduate. Among our industry partners are India’s premier digital bank (awarded as the most Innovative Bank of the Year), one of the largest non-banking finance companies in India, a leading affordable housing finance company, and many others.
 

BBA Entrepreneurship: An entrepreneurial mindset distinguishes the best professionals from the average. Our BBA Entrepreneurship programme provides an opportunity to earn a degree and be an entrepreneur at the same time. This programme includes learning at JKLU’s unique Start-up Studio, access to our Atal Incubation Centre setup with Niti Aayog, and the only BizLab in Rajasthan, in collaboration with All India Management Association.
 

BBA Interdisciplinary: This unique programme offers a core management foundation, new-age skills, and a choice of courses from technology and design, coupled with a flexible choice of specialization. Students learn from the best-in-class industry experts and experienced faculty, understand how the interplay of technology and design is changing customer experiences, and emerge as versatile graduates ready to take on any role in the new-age economy.

Why BBA at JKLU?
Study at a  NAAC ‘A’ Grade University, and benefit from recognition with employers and Higher Education Institutions for further studies in India and abroad.
Benefit from outstanding internship and placement support (the highest CTC for students graduating in 2022 was Rs. Eight Lakh)
Learn from faculty members from IIMs, industry and global institutions.
Experience virtual business simulation at the AIMA BizLab (the only one in Rajasthan), and compete with students from universities all across India.
Establish a solid foundation in core management areas of Marketing, Finance, HR, Economics, etc., along with domain specializations.
Build life skills of collaboration, communication, and critical thinking for success, with JKLU’s Centre of Communication and Critical Thinking (CCCT).
Explore electives and inter-disciplinary courses in Design Thinking, Automation, AI&ML and Liberal Studies.
Attend expert sessions by industry experts.
Participate in real-life case studies, role-plays, team projects, discussions and field projects.