Objective
The globally benchmarked BBA Entrepreneurship programme aims to help students build an entrepreneurial mindset and acquire skills to develop new business ideas and start-ups on one hand, and grow existing businesses on the other. Hands-on experience, tools and frameworks, and expert guidance in idea generation, evaluation, market analyses, business planning, performance management, fund mobilization, and organization building, ensure that students have a comprehensive tool-kit to succeed as entrepreneurs in their own business, or to be an intrapreneur in a large organization.

Key Highlights
Project-driven Internships
Internship opportunities with companies, start-ups, Atal Incubation Centre, among others.
Start-up Studio
Gain experience of conceptualising, planning and piloting business ideas with experts in the Start-up studio. Students have the option of executing their own start-up plan by the end of the programme.
Teaching integrated with practice
Contemporary curriculum with an emphasis on learning by doing.
Faculty from Institutions and Industry around the world
Faculty with global experience across domains and sectors.
Multidisciplinary Learning Opportunities
Multidisciplinary curriculum with exposure to business, design and technology, as well as critical life-skills.
Career Prospects
This powerful degree programme at JKLU attracts potential entrepreneurs who want to start their own business, as well as those who aspire to expand and transform their family businesses. The entrepreneurial mindset and skills also prepare students to be more effective in new-age companies which prefer employees who can take ownership of projects and drive growth.

 

Click the Enquiry tab on the left of page to know more or discuss with an Admission Advisor.

 

Course Curriculum
Semester 1
Foundations of Business Management
Economics-I
Accounting for Business
Introduction to Entrepreneurship
Fundamentals of Communication
Spreadsheet Essentials
Environmental Studies
Semester 2
Business Mathematics & Statistics
Economics-II
Principles of Marketing
Introduction to Financial Services and Fintech
Capstone-I
Critical Thinking & Story Telling
Design Thinking
Summer Term I:
Summer Social Project (optional)

Semester 3
Management Accounting
Operations Management
Sales and Distribution Management
Perspectives on Contemporary Issues
Intelligent Automation
Creativity and Innovation
Understanding Self
Semester 4
Financial Management
Marketing Research
Communication and Identity
Capstone-II
Idea to Business Model
Business Law & Ethics
Summer Term II:
Summer Internship Project

Semester 5
Business Strategy
Understanding and Managing Conflict
Design-II
Business Model to Product Market Fit
Electives
– Consumer Behaviour
– Business Analytics
– Organizational Behaviour
Semester 6
Business Performance Management
Critical Thinking for Decisions at Workplace
Business Simulation Workshop
Electives
– Project Management
– Python
Entrepreneurial Finance