JKLU Centres
Centre for Communication and Critical Thinking


The Centre for Communication and Critical Thinking (CCCT) is a key innovation of JK Lakshmipat University that uses the constructs of liberal arts, scientific temperament, group dynamics, and interpersonal communication to help students achieve personal and professional growth.

Firstly, CCCT supplements the students’ learning and growth journey through credited courses, communication labs, and diverse events. Six unique courses that focus on the capacity building of students across the areas of communication, critical thinking, negotiation, problem-solving, and decision making, have been duly developed by the Centre. These learning pathways are offered as core courses across the three institutes, alongside the discipline-specific courses for all programmes.

An Active Learning Approach is used to teach these courses. This involves various activities that encourage students to undertake tasks so as to practice and develop their skills, as opposed to passive learning, where information is simply passed on to them. Besides the courses, students attend 10-12 hours of compulsory Communication Laboratory, where they practice thinking, writing, and speaking. Personalised learning pedagogy is used to help each student improve their writing and speaking abilities over time. The formats that are used to conduct the lab sessions include:

Reading Circles | Think                         
Focused Groups | Write  
Public Speaking | Speak  
Open Office Hours |Mentor  
The third important aspect of CCCT is the Events. The Centre regularly organises events that create awareness among students and offer them exposure to diverse topics through an external interface, including expert talks, workshops, and field visits. The students are also encouraged to organise these events to help them build confidence and improve their organisational and communication skills.

CCCT’s contribution towards capacity building among students is acknowledged by our alumni as one of the most important aspects that has helped them become better professionals in their chosen fields. In a student perception survey conducted by the Centre, majority of them agreed that their presentation, confidence, and thinking skills have greatly improved due to CCCT interventions. The students’ testimony is further supported by the skill enhancement displayed by them during summer internships and in their final placements, which is extremely encouraging.

CCCT initiative, along with other academic practices of the university, have not only lead to augmenting the job preparedness of our students, but have also prepared them for life in general. The Centre for Communication and Critical Thinking acts as a Conscience Keeper by safeguarding the values enshrined by JK Lakshmipat University, for a better citizenry.