Faculty Name: Ashwini Sharma

--- Education ---
PhD
MBA
FDP-(IIM) Indore

--- Experience ---
Dr. Ashwini Sharma is currently Acting Director at Institute of Management. He has been associated with JKLU since 2010 and has since contributed significantly towards institution building in various roles and capacities. He is an accomplished faculty in the area of IT/ IS, Data Analytics and General Management with over 20 years of teaching, research, training, and consulting experience.

--- Teaching Interests ---
Information Systems
Business Data Analysis
Research Methods
Statistics
Computer Programming

--- Research Interests ---
Information System Effectiveness
Faculty Engagement in Higher Education
Management Education, Consumer Behavior
E-Waste Management

--- Honors, Awards, and Affiliations ---
Best PhD Thesis Award at the Eleventh Best PhD Thesis Contest Presentation, a national level contest organised during an International Conference in 2014.
Three Best Research Paper Awards for his research papers presented during national and international Conferences organised by various institutes and Universities during 2012-13.
Session Chair in the 2nd International Conference on Soft Computing for Problem Solving (SocProS-2012), December 28-30, 2012 organised by Institute of Engineering and Technology, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur in association with Liverpool Hope University, UK and IIT,
Organising Secretary for 7th International Conference on IT Applications and Management: Technological Innovation and the Future of Culture and Tourism, December 28-29, 2011, organised by Institute of Management, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur in association with The Korea Database Society hosted by Hanyang University, Seoul, South Korea.

--- Selected Publications ---
Manual for Information System Effectiveness (ISE) Scale. Agra: National Psychological Corporation.
IT Innovations for Organisational Excellence. New Delhi: Excel Books. (ISBN: 978-81-7446-759-1.
Faculty Engagement in Higher Education: Challenges and Opportunities (An Empirical Study with special reference to Rajasthan). Research Report submitted to State Planning Board, Jaipur, Rajasthan.
Management Education in India: Quality Issues and Concerns. BVIMR Management Edge, 9(2), 205-219. [ISSN 0976-0431].
Assessing Student Engagement in Higher Education Institutions. AIMS Journal of Management, 1(2), 89-98. [ISSN 2395-6852].

