Bdes design
Interdisciplinary Design ( B.Des )
4 year composite study programme that combines new age domains with traditional approaches to learning
University student
ABOUT THE PROGRAMME

B.Des. in Interdisciplinary Design has a flexible curriculum that combines courses from the various domains and disciplines of Design with courses from other institutes of the university. This allows you to leverage new age technology, hone an entrepreneurial mindset and become adept at understanding form and aesthetics, visual language and user-centric approach to develop products and systems in any discipline. Graduates of Interdisciplinary Design develop a curious mindset and can work in unfamiliar environments as they are trained to deal with ambiguity. With inputs in engineering and entrepreneurship, the Interdisciplinary Design student has a distinct advantage to act as a bridge between different functions in any environment or specialise later in a chosen field.

What is Taught?
21231443@4x
Courses to explore different facts of disciplines including Visual Design, Product Design, Interaction Design, Spatial Design, with a focus on problem solving and application.

Students can take courses not only from various domains and disciplines of design but also from other institutes of the University. They will learn to leverage new age technology and hone an entrepreneurial mindset. The students will become adept at understanding form and aesthetics, visual language and user-centric approach to developing products and systems in any discipline.

idd 1@4x
32235@4x
Interdisciplinary Design will help learners broaden their skills and knowledge and be able to cross-over and connect different domains of design, business, entrepreneurship, culture, technology and more.

Some Courses






To know more about Interaction Design courses, look at our :

Currciculum Structure
Future Prospects

 

They find opportunities in big organisations that wish to leverage design in their business as well as those startups where design plays an important role
Interdisciplinary Design graduates find work in design firms that do cross disciplinary work, creative agencies, and startups that need design inputs.
They are also singularly eligible to start their own agency.
Many go further into a specialisation that they enjoyed in their undergraduate programme. Some even take the research route and excel in academics.