bdes design

Integrated Communication Design ( B.Des )
The programme in Integrated Communication Design is developed by industry stalwarts to make you ready and relevant for tomorrow’s needs.

ABOUT THE PROGRAMME

This programme is predominantly hands-on as it follows the ‘learning by doing’ routine. Project based learning prepares you for a career that is both inspiring and invigorating. The programme allows exposure to all media and related software, and work on design assignments that define the nature of many career options. With time, the nature of communication design has changed significantly in the information economy. Content production has now become primarily digital. While the internet has given the power of creating content to one and all, consuming content has

What is Taught?
Asset 5@4x
The curriculum helps you to work on communication projects that are human-centric and learn the principles of Design Thinking in solving communication problems for the creative industries like advertising, print, web, film and video, new media, tech start-ups as well as designing for the social concerns like health and education.

The programme in Integrated Communication Design has a re-imagined curriculum that focuses on the traditional and new age – from motion to typography, writing to graphics, imaging data to analytics to understand impact.

idd@4x
Asset 1@4x
Design practices that include graphic design, web design, information design, information architecture, advertising and branding, way finding, social communication, and motion graphics that echo the project-based learning approach of the Institute of Design at JKLU.

Some Courses






To know more about Interaction Design courses, look at our :

Currciculum Structure
Future Prospects

Our graduates find opportunities as Interaction designers in technology companies and big corporations.
Successful completion of the programme equips you with the competencies toc. and work in the area of branding, publication, communication design and design for digital medium.
Find placements with leading graphic design firms, tech firms, Film & Video studios, Print studios, Startups, etc.
Find opportunities in the social sectors, NGOs and the government projects or start your own design enterprise and become an entrepreneur