Faculty Name: Sheetal Mundra

--- Education ---
PhD (Economics) from MDS University, Ajmer in 2005. Thesis Title: “Women Development: Economic Status of Women and Caste”.
M.A. (Economics) from MDS University, Ajmer in 1997.
Graduation from MDS University, Ajmer in 1995.

--- Experience ---
Dr. Sheetal Mundra is a Professor at the Institute of Management, JKLU. She is an economist and educator with 15 years of post-doctorate experience in teaching, training, and research. She is a PhD  in Economics from MDS University, Rajasthan. She was associated with Northcap University, Gurgaon before joining JKLU faculty. Being a merit holder, she is certified in ‘Advance Data Analytics’ from IIM Kozhikode; FDP from IIM, Ahmedabad, and ‘Certification in Entrepreneurship Education’ by Wadhwani Foundation. Dr. Mundra aims to equip the new generations with economic life skills and provide them a platform to explore and develop their entrepreneurial skill.

--- Teaching Interests ---
Micro & Macro Economics
Managerial Economics
Indian Economy
Entrepreneurship

--- Research Interests ---
Indian Economy
Women Entrepreneurship
Inclusive and Sustainable Development

--- Honors, Awards, and Affiliations ---
Awarded ‘Women Achievers Award 2020’ by Business Rankers in the category of BEST PRACTICES IN EDUCATION.
Lions Club Jaipur Capital awarded as one of the best faculty of Institute of Management
Entrepreneurship Educator (awarded ‘Level-1 Certification’) and running Wadhwani Foundation’s (NEN) PAN India level courses.

--- Selected Publications ---
Sheetal Mundra (2019). A Review of Indian Government Initiatives: Poverty on the Decline. Humanities and Social Sciences Reviews (HSSR), 7(1), pp 324-331, eISSN: 2395-6518, https://doi.org/10.18510/hssr.2019.7137
Sheetal Mundra & Laxmi Lal (2018),” Agricultural Production and Resource Economics”, a Textbook, Agrotech Publishing Academy, Udaipur.
Publication 2: Mundra, S. & Singh, M. (2017). Inter-linkages between human development and economic growth: a sustainable development analysis across Indian states. International Journal of Indian Culture and Business Management, Inderscience publishers (‘C’ listed), Vol. 15, No.2, 183-205.

