Life at JKLU
Student Council

At JKLU, the Department of Student Affairs collaborates with the elected student members of the Student Council to extend assistance on issues pertaining to the general welfare of students. The council works to make resources freely accessible to everyone and build a welcoming atmosphere for both personal and professional development of the students. The office of student affairs is actively involved in community development and to achieve this aim, numerous student initiatives and programs are now being adopted.

The student council constitutes a committed group of students from the Institutes of Engineering and Technology, Management, and Design. All the elected members of the council diligently carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities with the aim to strengthen the relationship between the students and the administration.

Objective
The objectives of the Student Council are many fold:
To advocate the interests of the students to the administration and vice versa.
Establish an environment where every student can express his/ her needs and concerns.
To provide a platform where the students can confidently display their talent.
The student council is also responsible for overseeing the efficient planning and operation of all university- related activities, events, clubs, residence halls, meals, and transportation.
This year's guiding idea is inclusion of all, not only in terms of participation but also ideation and execution.
Student Council 2023-24
The JKLU Student Council is unique this year. Nearly equal participation of girls and boys (32 girls and 24 boys) in the newly elected 56-member council is a heartwarming development and an inspiring reminder of an egalitarian society.

Adding to this, the council also has a good representation from all the three institutions (Engineering and technology, Management and Design) and batches (19 students from the third year, 16 students from the second year, and 15 students from the first year).

Six sub-domains make up the Student Council 2023–24, each of which is managed by a General Secretary and Secretary with full support from the Council President. To make living and studying at JKLU enjoyable and comfortable, the six sub- councils collaborate closely with the administration and serve as representatives of the student body.

image 01President
VIDIT SHARMA (BBA, Batch 2021-24)
Ph: 9079059858
Email: viditsharma@jklu.edu.in
Vidit previously served as the Cultural Secretary of the Student Council from 2022 to 2023. He has earlier participated in a number of club activities and has represented the university in many management and cultural events held across the country. He played a key role in the organisation of several JKLU signature events, including Sabrang, Spardha, and the most recent Aarambh.

Vidit is the recipient of numerous awards in the fields of literature, entrepreneurship, and athletics. His interest and passion for startups and business ventures are reflected in his achievements and accomplishments.

