Faculty Name: Dr Saurabh Singanapalli

--- Education ---
PhD (Language Education/ Visual Communication) from IDC, IIT Bombay.
M.Phil. (English Language Education) from English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad.
M.A. (English – Media and Communication) from English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU/CIEFL), Hyderabad.
B.A. (English) from St. Xavier’s College, Ahmedabad.
Advanced Diploma in Spanish from English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU/CIEFL), Hyderabad.
Diplôme Supérieur in French from Alliance Française, Ahmedabad.
Business French Level 1 certification from Alliance Française, Ahmedabad.

--- Experience ---
Dr. Saurabh Singanapalli is Assistant Professor at the Centre for Communication and Critical Thinking, JKLU. He specialises in language teaching and communication, with several years of classroom teaching experience in academia as well as in the industry. In addition, he has worked in the industry as a materials developer and as a translator &amp; language specialist.

--- Teaching Interests ---
Language Teaching
Functional Communication
English Literature
Media Adaptations of Literature, Comics and Graphic Novels

--- Research Interests ---
Teaching Writing
Materials Development
Visual Narratives
English Literature
Adaptation Studies

--- Honors, Awards, and Affiliations ---
First Prize winner of the IIIrd Premio Cervantes Spanish Short Story Writing Competition organised by the Embassy of Spain in India (2007).
Awarded the Gurukul scholarship organised by SPIC MACAY and the Foundation for Universal Responsibility of His Holiness the Dalai Lama (FURHHDL) (2004).

--- Selected Publications ---
Singanapalli, S. (2020). A Proposed Framework for Designing a Postgraduate Course to Study Adaptations of Sanskrit Literature in Contemporary Media. Journal of Psychosocial Research, Vol.15, No.2, 385-392 [ISSN 0973-5410].
Singanapalli, S. (2017, January). Designing Static Visual Narratives as Prompts for Practising Creative Writing. In International Conference on Research into Design (pp. 421-431). Springer, Singapore.

